And the Watchtower under consideration today was entitled,
Your Deliverance is Getting Near.
And that's the theme from which our date text
and comments were taken.
And I'm sure you, like me, rejoice in the hope.
You rejoice to think about the blessings
that will come right after the Great Tribulation
and Armageddon.
How encouraging to know that the world,
which, to many, seems out of control,
is soon nearing its end.
The grand finale is close.
How close?
Well, we all recall the stirring, concluding talk
at this year's regional convention.
It summed it up in one word, imminent.
The day and the hour for the judgment
against this system of things has been
on Jehovah's calendar for years.
It's established.
And as Habakkuk's prophecy indicates,
there is a rushing toward that day.
It will not be late.
Well, how does our date text today from Revelation chapter 6
and verse 15 help us to understand details
about that fast approaching Great Tribulation?
And then how can that advanced knowledge help us
to be prepared for what is coming?
Well, I invite you to open up your Bible with me
to read the context found in Revelation chapter 6.
We want to read verses 15 to 17 together.
And keep in mind, as has been commented on,
that what we're going to read now in Scripture takes place
right after the Great Tribulation begins
and right after false religion has been destroyed.
The question is, how will the majority of mankind respond
to what's coming next and why?
Let's read it together, Revelation 6, 15 to 17.
Then the kings of the earth, the high officials,
the military commanders, the rich, the strong,
every slave and every free person,
hid in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains.
And they keep saying to the mountains and to the rocks,
fall over us and hide us from the face
of the one seated on the throne
and from the wrath of the Lamb
because the great day of their wrath has come
and who is able to stand.
Did you notice where the majority will turn for refuge?
It's amazing to think that even after the world empire
of false religion has been completely destroyed,
the majority of people will continue to trust
in human organizations.
At that late hour, after the Great Tribulation
has started and before Armageddon has begun,
the Bible does not indicate that there is going to be
any mass conversion of people running to Jehovah's Mountain.
At that moment, political and commercial institutions
that will still be standing for a time
will appear to the majority to be rock solid
like mountains and caves.
Verse 15 outlines the all-inclusive list
of those who will continue to be completely deceived
by Satan the devil.
Think of it, all of them, including former adherence
of false religion or the non-religious
will go right back to their comfort zone
looking for protection and salvation
from human organizations.
Will their comfort zone be a safe zone?
No. Notice how the Revelation climax
book described this passage of scripture.
I quote, neither caves in the literal mountains
nor symbolic mountain-like political
and commercial organizations will provide financial security
or any other kind of help.
Nothing will shelter them from Jehovah's wrath.
Indeed, exciting and sobering times are rushing toward us.
Well, how does this advanced information,
this inspired message from God
help us prepare for that coming day?
The Watchtower under consideration encouraged us
to think about what lies ahead
and described this time period as a time of judgment and testing.
Of course, when I thought about that future time of testing,
I thought to myself, today is a time of test, isn't it?
Our brothers and sisters, unlike at any other time
in history, are facing failing economies,
natural disasters, health problems, untimely death,
war, persecution, all of our brothers and sisters
are facing a time of test right now.
Even armed raids at Bethel and at Kingdom Halls
are not uncommon today,
yet we have not yet entered the Great Tribulation.
It's very likely that life will get even more difficult
in the near future.
So it's good for us to think now,
what do I view as my comfort zone?
Is my trust and confidence even in little ways
in material things or in the assets I have
in this system of things?
Do my response to difficulties and challenges today,
even before the Great Tribulation breaks out,
reveal that Jehovah is my rock and not in a human institution?
Sadly, some of our brothers and sisters
have been affected by the deception
that there is such a thing as material security.
In 2013, an elder, his experience was published in the magazine.
He said this, I thought we could relate those of us
who were in full-time service.
He said, I'm normally very thrifty.
If I pour out a little too much shampoo,
I put some back in the bottle.
Nevertheless, this elder, Alex,
got caught up in trading in the stock market,
thinking he could soon quit his job
and enter the pioneer service.
Well, he was well-motivated.
But Alex became ever more engrossed in studying offerings,
the market reports, using his savings and money
that he borrowed from brokers.
He bought stocks that the analysts,
the experts predicted would rise in value suddenly.
Instead, they dropped in value.
How did Alex respond?
He said, I was determined to get my money back.
I felt that if I just held on, the stocks would come back up.
Can you imagine how Alex was feeling emotionally
for months waiting for the stocks to go up in value?
Alex found it difficult to focus on spiritual matters.
He lost sleep.
The stocks, as you can imagine, never rebounded.
As a result, Alex lost his savings
and he had to sell his house.
He admits, I caused great pain to my family.
But notice the powerful conclusion
through a tough experience that he related.
He says, I now know that anyone who puts his trust
in Satan's system will be profoundly disappointed.
It's a good reminder for all of us, isn't it?
Things in this system of things, human organizations,
whatever source, political, commercial,
institutions of higher education cannot provide salvation
now, nor in the future.
Notice how Proverbs chapter 11,
verse 28 harmonizes with the point that Alex made.
Proverbs chapter 11, and verse 28,
the one trusting in his riches will fall.
But the righteous will flourish like the foliage.
What's the point?
Resting even a little bit of confidence or hope
in our savings, perhaps our investments,
our ability to earn money in this system of things
amounts to resting our confidence in Satan the devil.
It's a comfort zone that is not safe.
No wonder then the faithful slave has urged us all of us,
including those of us in full time service
who perhaps have made a life of sacrifice
to put Kingdom interest first,
to think seriously about the question,
am I ready to give up material things?
Knowing where we run for comfort today,
even when there's little difficulties in our life,
challenging circumstances, gives us a good indication
of where we're going to run in the future
when things get more difficult.
Of course, Jehovah does not want us to face the future
with fear, he wants us to face the future with confidence.
And we can.
Our knowledge of what the near future holds,
the details of how the great tribulation will unfold,
the instability of this dying system of things
convinces us that there is no comfort zone
in this system of things.
There's no safer comfort zone than entrusting
in Jehovah day after day.
So may this reminder serve to encourage us
to continue to work diligently
to store up treasures in heaven,
treasures that will never fail,
treasures that will continue through the great tribulation
after Armageddon and safely lead us into the real life.
It's even as the Apostle Paul was inspired
to write to Timothy,
may we continue to put our hope not on uncertain riches,
but on God who richly provides for us all today
and forever, even during the great tribulation.
Yes, doing so will convince us
that our deliverance is getting near
and we have nothing to fear.